From Simple English Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Artificial intelligence (AI) is the ability of a computer program or a machine to think and learn. It is a field of study which tries to make computers "smart". 
John McCarthy came up with the name, "Artificial Intelligence" in 1955. Intelligence allows an organism to act in a meaningful way in its environment. 
It includes the ability to get sensory inputs, and to react to these. Artificial intelligence is also about processing information and about storing knowledge. 
One of the goals of "artificial intelligence" is to make a machine that behaves in a similar way.
The term intelligence is misleading, here. Alan Turing wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"
He proposed the question should be changed, from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".
Alain Turing also created the Turing test. This is a very general test. If a human cannot tell if at the other end of the line, there is a machine or a human answering questions, 
the machine is intelligent.The authors of Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach agree with Turing that AI must be defined in terms of "acting" and not "thinking". 
However, they are critical that the test compares machines to people. "Aeronautical engineering texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines 
that fly so exactly like pigeons that they can fool other pigeons.'" AI founder John McCarthy agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation 
of human intelligence". In general use, the term "artificial intelligence" means a programme which mimics human cognition. At least some of the things we associate with other 
minds, such as learning and problem solving can be done by computers, though not in the same way as we do. Andreas Kaplan and Michael Haenlein define AI as a system’s ability 
to correctly interpret external data, to learn from such data, and to use those learnings to achieve specific goals and tasks through flexible adaptation.
An ideal (perfect) intelligent machine is a flexible agent which perceives its environment and takes actions to maximize its chance of success at some goal or objective.[8] 
As machines become increasingly capable, mental faculties once thought to require intelligence are removed from the definition. For example, optical character recognition 
is no longer regarded as an example of "artificial intelligence": it is just a routine technology.
At present we use the term AI for successfully decoding human speech, competing at a high level in strategic game systems (such as chess and Go), self-driving cars, and 
interpreting complex data.[9] Some people also consider AI a danger to humanity if it continues to progress at its current pace.An extreme goal of AI research is to create 
computer programs that can learn, solve problems, and think logically. In practice, however, most applications have picked on problems which computers can do well. 
Searching databases and doing calculations are things computers do better than people. On the other hand, "perceiving its environment" in any real sense is way beyond present-day 
computing.AI involves many different fields like computer science, mathematics, linguistics, psychology, neuroscience, and philosophy. Eventually researchers hope to create a 
"general artificial intelligence" which can solve many problems instead of focusing on just one. Researchers are also trying to create creative and emotional AI which can possibly 
empathize or create art. Many approaches and tools have been tried. Borrowing from the management literature, Kaplan and Haenlein classify artificial intelligence into three 
different types of AI systems: analytical, human-inspired, and humanized artificial intelligence. Analytical AI has only characteristics consistent with cognitive intelligence 
generating cognitive representation of the world and using learning based on past experience to inform future decisions. Human-inspired AI has elements from cognitive as well as 
emotional intelligence, understanding, in addition to cognitive elements, also human emotions considering them in their decision making. Humanized AI shows characteristics of all 
types of competencies (i.e., cognitive, emotional, and social intelligence), able to be self-conscious and self-aware in interactions with others.

